# Ruby Assessments

Try your best to answer each question on your own before looking up the answer online. Once you're done writing your first answer, you can google the question and write the best answer you find.


#### 1. What is a method in Ruby? How is it different or similar to functions in JavaScript?

Functions in JavaScript are similar to methods in Ruby.  Both take in variables to produce an output.  The syntax is slightly different.

#### 2. What does it mean that a class inherits from another class? Try to explain Ruby inheritance.


[Your Answer]

Inheritance means that a child class takes all of the attributes of a parent class at initialization.  Any new child class that is created will be a carbon copy of the parent class.   However, the child classes can then be changed to have different atributes specific to each child class.

[Googled Answer]

Inheritance is a fundamental OOP feature that allows you to create a more specific & specialized version of a class.

#### 3. What is rspec and what is the general process for writing tests in RSpec?

//Your Answer

RSPEC is a process for testing code accuracy in ruby.  The general process is to determine a feature to implement.  Write a block to test only that single feature, then repeat.  It tests small pieces of a program, one element at a time.

//Googled Answer

RSpec is a testing tool for Ruby, created for behavior-driven development (BDD). It is the most frequently used testing library for Ruby in production applications.  With RSpec, we are always describing the behavior of classes, modules and their methods. The describe block is always used at the top to put specs in a context. It can accept either a class name, in which case the class needs to exist, or any string you’d like.

#### 4. Name three possible non-inheritance relationships between ruby objects?

//Your Answer

Everything in ruby is considered an object.  If this is true, every relationship in ruby is a relationship between objects.  For example, objects can be added together (x+y).    Objects can be variables in functions (functions are also objects).   Objects can be inputs for an array of objects (where the array is also an object).   All operations in ruby involving more than one element are relationships among objects.

//Googled Answer
This was difficult to google.  However, below are some examples I think are pertinent from google.

Here are just a few examples:
Your users sign in to your app and "friend" other users. All of a sudden, users are associated through friendship.
Your app connects users to animal shelters through which they can adopt pets. Users are associated to shelters and to pets. At the same time shelters are associated to pets.
Your app allows users to aggregate their most recent tweets and those of their friends and followers. In this example, users are associated to tweets and users might even be associated to each other.
These are just a few examples of the sorts of domain models you will soon develop, almost all of which will involve object relations––the idea that instances of your classes (also referred to as models in such a situation) can interact with each other and be associated with one another.

#### 5. What do we call the #{} convention used below? What is it accomplishing?

```ruby
x = 1022
puts "I am printing a random number #{x}"
```
This is allowing you to put ruby code into your string.  You can pull in any number you set equal to x, without changing the sentence itself.  In the current example, the code will insert 1022 into the sentence where the x is currently located.  If you changed the 1022 to 10, this code would insert the 10 into the sentence instead.

#### 6. How do you feel about testing right now? What potential pros/cons/barriers/advantages do you see to implementing BDD in your own code?

//Your Answer

I feel confident in using RSPEC testing to test blocks of ruby code.  The advantage is that I can test small blocks of functionality as I go, avoiding wasted time later if a large program didn't work - having to locate and debug a huge amount of code.  On the downside BDD may miss how the whole program fits together and whether there are any side effects of the individual blocks that could undermine the effectiveness of the program as a whole.

//Googled Answer

One advantage is that BDD fits in the Agile model of programming, generally preferred by many companies as a development approach.

The primary “disadvantages” of BDD are two-fold. Because communications between the user and the developer are essential, if the user if not available, it will be difficult to work past ambiguities and questions generated by the user stories.  The second disadvantage is the need to dedicate a team of developers to work with the client. The short response time required for the process means high levels of availability. However, if the client organization has a good understanding of what is involved in a development project based on Agile principles, the client expert will be available when needed. And if the development teams perform as efficiently as they can, their demands on the client expert will be minimized.

#### 7. What is an instance variable in Ruby? How is it different from a normal, local variable?

//Your Answer

An instance variable begins with @ and lives within a class instance.  

//Googled Answer

Instance variables begin with an at sign (@) and can be referenced only within class methods. They differ from local variables in that they don't exist within any particular scope. Instead, a similar variable table is stored for each instance of a class. Instance variables live within a class instance, so as long as that instance stays alive, so will the instance variables.


Instance variables can be referenced in any method of that class. All methods of a class use the same instance variable table, as opposed to local variables where each method will have a different variable table. It is possible to access instance variables without first defining them, however. This will not raise an exception, but the variable's value will be nil and a warning will be issued if you've run Ruby with the -w switch

#### 8. Ruby has a great community and tons of free resources to help you learn. Here is the long list of great resources: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/. Below are a few popular ones:
- Interactive Ruby tutorial (http://tryruby.org/levels/1/challenges/0)
- Why's (poigniant) Guide to Ruby: comics, anecdotes, and microscopic canaries (http://poignant.guide/book/chapter-1.html)
- Ruby in 20 min (https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/quickstart/)


Choose one of these resources and go through the material (not for hours, only looking for around 10min of your time) then come back here and list a few new things you learned about Ruby.

I learned about the difference between a class and a module.  A class can be instantiated but a module cannot. A module will never be anything other than a library of methods. A class can be so much more -- it can hold its state (by keeping track of instance variables) and be duplicated as many times as you want.
